Global labour shortage
The rise in population has led to an increased food demand, which in turn, has led to greater pressure on farmers to increase yield and area harvested for various crops. However, global labour shortage in agriculture is one of the major factors leading to loss of yield.
Optimise crop yields
To cater to this issue, farmers are highly adopting farm mechanisation and other smart agriculture techniques to optimise their crop yields. Smart agriculture involves the adoption of artificial intelligence (AI), GPS, cloud machine learning, satellite imagery, and advanced analytics.
“Harvesting is one of the major phases of farming, and the use of various smart devices increases the output and thus decreases the overall loss,” states the report.
Limited number of manufacturers
Products such as GPS, sensors, and various imaging systems are commercialised and offered by various manufacturers, globally. “However, there is a limited number of manufacturers for harvesting robots. Majority of the manufacturers have harvesting robots in the testing phase or have launched prototypes and are expected to launch in the market for sales in the near future,” says the research company.
Panasonic tomato-picking robot
For instance, in January 2018, Panasonic Corporation unveiled a prototype of their new fully autonomous tomato-picking robot in Tokyo. The robot is incorporated with high-resolution cameras, sensors, and artificial intelligence features to identify and pick ripe tomatoes.
Maximum profitability and production
The most significant factor driving the smart harvest market is the increasing adoption of new technologies in farming for maximum profitability and production. “Thanks to the use of various devices such as mapping software, variable rate technology (VRT), and yield mapping farmers can increase the fertility, productivity, profitability, and sustainability of crops,” say the MarketsandMarkets researchers.
Additionally, various government initiatives across the globe have been encouraging farmers to adopt such modern farm technologies, in turn, increasing the sales of smart harvest systems.
What is driving the growth of smart harvest systems?
Smart harvest systems help growers to obtain more revenue from the agribusiness. They help gain geospatial data of soil, livestock, and plant, and inter- and intra-field information to protect crops from negative environmental impacts.
“These advanced technologies also help to obtain accurate information regarding the application of irrigation water, liquid fertilisers, nutrients, herbicides, and pesticides on fields, thereby reducing the wastage of resources.”
Better insight into crops
Mapping software, yield mapping, and other techniques of advanced farming help to increase the fertility, productivity, profitability, and sustainability of crops. Smart harvest technologies offer better insight into the crops to identify and relay the harvest potential to the farmers, leading to an increase in productivity.